So now I think it's time
to bring in a web server.
Cuz now it's cool to have this LED
tell me if the button is pressed or
not pressed, but
rather Chrome tell me, right?
And so there's another example in there
that kinda gives us the basic setup and
by navigating to folder
called button with web server,
which I think is a good name for
what I seek to do at this point.
So I'm just going to navigate into there.
And I've got a slightly
different setup in there for us.
All right, so let's talk a little
bit about the code that's in here.
It shouldn't be anything too fancy.
We've got just the bare bones Express app.
I use Express cuz I feel like
that's possibly things people
are most familiar with.
If you wanna use whatever, the heapster,
HTTP server as of the day, or if you wanna
go real artisanal and just pulling Node's,
HTTP library, you can do that as well.
I just chose to use Express.
And so essentially use an Express app,
but then we also set up Johnny-Five.
I'm setting repl to false simply
because Express is gonna start up, and
that's gonna take over most of the console
and I don't want them fighting.
I just wanna see the Express
logs in this case.
So this will not send you into the repl.
And all I have right now is not
a lot happening in here, right?
I have that button that I had wired
up before, and we start up a server.
What I wanna do is I wanna
bridge the gap here.
What I wanna do is when I go to a given
endpoint, I should get a response back,
is this button presently pressed or
not pressed, right?
And yeah, so we're gonna build on it.
There will be WebSockets.
We will start pushing that information
to the browser, but baby steps here.
What we wanna do is just basically see,
can we, cuz one,
we theoretically could see
whether the button is there, or
we could theoretically go ahead and
trigger the LED from the browser, right?
But let's start by just saying,
is our button pressed,
is our button not pressed at this moment?
And then we'll kinda
build on it from there.
And so
whatever endpoint you try to use is fine.
I'm gonna do app.get request
to just slash at this point.
So we'll go ahead and
we'll just have a get request.
And right now, no, wrong cursor,
we'll say just res.send Hello World.
Basically, make sure our server works,
first and foremost,
and then after that, then we'll get
a little fancier with our lives, right?
So it was just a quick
little get endpoint.
If you wanna make an API,
do whatever you want.
In my case, we've got a slash.
We're just gonna say Hello World, and
we'll kinda build on it in a second.
You can make an API or whatever.
Cool, cool, cool, so I've got that.
Let's fire up the server and
take a look at what we've got.
So we'll say node just index.js.
You can see it spins up
Johnny-Five cuz the server
doesn't start up until board's ready.
And now my server is running on port 3000.
I see Hello World.
So I have a web server.
That's cool, I guess.
But now let's actually
hook it up to the button.
And whether or not a button is pressed,
that's cool, but
we've also got some sensors that we can
play around with a little bit later to
then have a web server which is like,
tell me the current temperature.
Tell me the light in this room or
something along those lines is pretty easy
once we have some of these
foundational concepts.
All right, so one of the things we're
probably gonna do is we do need to,
as far as I know, and
I'm pretty sure I checked, the LED,
you can figure out if it's on or off.
The button,
I think we've gotta set ourselves.
So we'll say that the button is not
pressed when the button is down.
We'll say that isPressed is true.
And when the button is up,
We'll say that isPressed is false, right?
Great, so same as down up,
we have to return the LED on and off.
You can even steal that code
from yourself if you want.
We'll just change
the boolean at this point.
And then Hello World, or we could say,
Yeah, I like that ternary, right?
I'll say,
Pressed, Or not pressed.
Period.
All right, so let's try that out and
see what we've got.
Now I've gotta kill everything off again.
So I should refresh, the button
is not pressed, moment of truth,
hold down button, the button is pressed.
So I've now started to bridge
the gap between browser to Node,
Node to the Arduino, right?
So we've got the foundational pieces
here of what can hopefully begin
to bridge these three things together.
Now, this is where it gets interesting,
right?
We've got a lot of options here.
We can also go the other direction, right?
We can send post requests to the server,
which have access to Johnny-Five, right?
That can then control stuff on the board,
right?
So we can have various, either other
things in our house, our browser itself,
send things to the board.
Or if there are other sensors in this
packet, I think there's a temperature
sensor, a light sensor,
a tilt sensor, few other sensors.
And when we talk about sensors a little
bit, most sensors are super cheap.
They're three bucks, right?
And so this one didn't come with one
of these soil moisture sensors, but
you can see a world that one could
theoretically either push a WebSocket,
use something with something like this.
And I think these costs $4, right?
The same concepts will apply to
literally anything that we're doing.
We're just gonna stick to
the things in the kit for now.